# Face-Mask-Detection-Using-CNN-Model
                                                                      Abstract 
                                                                      
                                                                      
                             COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly affected our day-to-day life disrupting world trade and movements. Wearing a protective face mask has become a new normal. In the near future, many public service providers will ask the customers to wear masks correctly to avail of their services. Therefore, face mask detection has become a crucial task to help global society. This work presents a simplified approach to achieve this purpose using some basic Machine Learning packages like Keras, OpenCV and Scikit-Learn. The proposed method detects the face from the image correctly and then identifies if it has a mask on it or not. As a surveillance task performer, it can also detect a face along with a mask in motion. The method attains avg accuracy up to 94.77% respectively on dataset. We explore optimized values of parameters using the Sequential Convolutional Neural Network model to detect the presence of masks correctly without causing over-fitting.
                                                          
                                                          
                                                                  Proposed Method
                                                                  
                                                                  The proposed system focuses on how to identify the person on an image/video stream wearing a face mask with the help of computer vision and deep learning algorithm by using the OpenCV, Tensor flow , Keras and other python libraries. Approach : 1. Train Deep learning model (MobileNetV2) 2. Apply mask detector over images / live video stream The majority of the images were augmented by OpenCV. The set of images were already labeled mask and no mask. The images that were present were of different sizes and resolutions, probably extracted from different sources or from machines (cameras) of different resolutions. Face Mask Detection in webcam stream. ● The flow to identify the person in the webcam wearing the face mask or not. The process is two-fold. 1. To identify the faces in the webcam. 2. Classify the faces based on the mask. 
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
